[tutorial] "Build a Word Viewer" Build tutorial (#685)
lit/lit.dev: packages/lit-dev-content/site/tutorials/content/first-component/04.md

By the end of this step, the shown word will automatically change every second.

This can be achieved by using
[`setInterval`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/setInterval), a
browser function which repeatedly calls a function with a fixed delay between
each call.

Define a method `tickToNextWord` that will increment `this.idx`.

{% switchable-sample %}

```ts
// word-viewer.ts

  render() {
    ...
  }

  tickToNextWord = () => { this.idx += 1; };

```

```js
// word-viewer.js

  render() {
    ...
  }

  tickToNextWord = () => { this.idx += 1; };

```

{% endswitchable-sample %}

Calling this method increments our reactive internal state `idx` which will

> schedule an update.

Reviewer: Is it worth mentioning why this is an arrow function to bind the context of `this`?

Author: Added an info aside! Great callout!

element lifecycle
callbacks](/docs/components/lifecycle/#custom-element-lifecycle)
`connectedCallback`, and `disconnectedCallback`.

`connectedCallback` is invoked when the component is added to the DOM, and
`disconnectedCallback` is invoked when the component is removed from the DOM.

{% switchable-sample %}

```ts
// word-viewer.ts

  private intervalTimer?: number;
  
  connectedCallback() {
    super.connectedCallback();
    this.intervalTimer = setInterval(this.tickToNextWord, 1000);
  }
  
  disconnectedCallback() {
    super.disconnectedCallback();
    clearInterval(this.intervalTimer);
    this.intervalTimer = undefined;
  }

```

```js
// word-viewer.js

  intervalTimer;
  
  connectedCallback() {
    super.connectedCallback();
    this.intervalTimer = setInterval(this.tickToNextWord, 1000);
  }
  
  disconnectedCallback() {
    super.disconnectedCallback();
    clearInterval(this.intervalTimer);
    this.intervalTimer = undefined;
  }

```

{% endswitchable-sample %}

When the `word-viewer` is attached to the DOM, `connectedCallback` is invoked
and `setInterval` repeatedly calls `this.tickToNextWord` every 1000ms, or every
second.

> Store the interval ID on `this.intervalTimer` which does not need to be reactive.

Reviewer: This sentence sounds like a command but follows the code snippet where the previous and following paragraphs sound like explanation of the code snippet. Perhaps this should also be descriptive like
```suggestion
The interval ID is stored on `this.intervalTimer` which does not need to be reactive.
```

Author: Great catch! Oops!

When `word-viewer` is removed from the DOM, `disconnectedCallback` is invoked

> cleaning up the interval, and `this.tickToNextWord` is no longer called.

Reviewer: Perhaps an extra emphasis here to not forget this step to prevent memory leaks?

Author: Spent a bit thinking about this and not sure how else to phrase - since I elude to this with "cleaning up the interval".

Do you have a phrasing suggestion?

Reviewer: You're right that "cleaning up" here already covers that. I can't think of anything more to say without it being redundant. Please disregard this comment!

The preview should be cycling over individual words.

<litdev-aside type="info" no-header>

Lit leverages standard [custom element lifecycle

> callbacks](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Web_Components/Using_custom_elements#using_the_lifecycle_callbacks).

Reviewer: Is it worth mentioning in this aside why the `super.connectedCallback()` and `super.disconnectedCallback()` are necessary?

Author: Added to the aside.

Calling this method increments our reactive internal state `idx` which will
schedule an update.

<litdev-aside type="info" noheading>

> When adding listeners imperatively with `addEventListener`, an arrow function is

Reviewer: In this case, it's not specifically `addEventListener` but the callback to `setInterval`. Maybe this should be sort of basic knowledge for JS users but maybe warrants a link to https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/setInterval#the_this_problem

Author: *facepalm* - Thank you for catching this twice. I was completely anchored on events.
